global_tax_modifier
"Efficient Tax Administration"
"We have found a more efficient way to administer our taxes, which makes it so much easier to take gold from the rich and the poor alike."
 
production_efficiency		 
"Encourage Production"
"The carrot and the stick work on the stubborn donkey, but our idea to encourage production takes this a step further. We have managed to increase our production efficiency greatly through something more ingenious. Although you should never underestimate the carrot, nor the stick."
 
global_unrest		 
"Guaranteed Freedoms"
"Certain freedoms are guaranteed and our ordinarily restless subjects now find it more difficult to protest against our rule."
 
stability_cost_modifier		 
"Continuity"
"People claim they want adventure and passion in their lives, but when push comes to shove it is stability everyone secretly craves. A bit of continuity makes people sleep well in their beds, certain of what the future holds for them."
 
missionaries		 
"State Missionary Schools"
"Missionary schools train people to go out and spread the true faith without fail. The State Missionary School is no different, but for the fact the state itself educates the ones she wishes to send out on this holy quest."
 
inflation_reduction		 
"Standardized Currency"
"A coinage with a standardized weight and produced in a special mint to ensure that they all look and weigh the same works wonders for trade. No longer do the merchants feel cheated - at least not because the coin they trade with contains more or less gold or silver - and the whole country shares the same standardized currency."
 
inflation_action_cost		 
"Financial Regulations"
"Giving money-lenders and bankers certain requirements and guidelines keeps them honest and leads to prosperity and financial growth."
 
interest		 
"Expand Financial Markets"
"Allowing people to buy things on credit has caused trade to flourish, our people and merchants are getting richer each day."
 
build_cost		 
"Competitive Builders"
"By allowing builders to bid for construction contracts rather than simply repeatedly hiring the same workers, competition among builders and their eagerness to be hired decreases the overall build cost of structures."

global_missionary_strength		 
"Zealous Missionaries"
"Our missionaries preach with a fervor never before seen, and no one may evade their lectures delivered with the fire of a true believer."
 
prestige		 
"Patronize Local Artists"
"The support, encouragement, privilege, and financial aid we bestow upon local artists mark us as a progressive and cultural nation."
 
prestige_decay		 
"Lasting Prestige"
"Lying: Preventing our prestige from decreasing has never been easier!"
 
legitimacy		 
"Legitimate Rule"
"Surely no one ever doubted that we would be the legitimate ruler of our country - but if anyone did, this will silence their doubts."
 
devotion		 
"Religious Traditions"
"Our state has a long and proud tradition of serving god, strengthening the devotion of our rulers and ensuring that we act justly and rightly according to the will of the spiritual realm."
 
horde_unity		 
"Unite the Clans"
"Our state is built on the proud traditions of multiple clans that have come together to create a great horde. As such we are able to keep together even in harsher times to a higher degree than some other hordes."
 
republican_tradition		 
"Republican Ethos"
"Republican tradition flows though the very veins of every citizen of our nation, they rejoice in their freedom and independence."
 
technology_cost		 
"Scientific Heritage"
"Our land has a long tradition of scientific enquiry. By making sure our heritage in science is explored, encouraged, and exposed, we will see our future in technology secured and within easy grasp."
 
idea_cost		 
"Court Philosophers"
"By patronizing freethinking philosophers at our court we can ensure that our nation is ready to adapt to whatever the future may throw at us."
 
advisor_cost		 
"Tradition of Service"
"The children of our advisors shall follow in their parents' footsteps, ensuring us that we will never lack advisors of any sort."
 
advisor_pool		 
"Grand Court"
"The larger the court, the more advisors are demanded. Our Grand Court might be the largest of them all, and this is reflected by the amount of advisors seeking a place at our court."
 
tolerance_own		 
"The Pious State"
"The state and the church are one and the same, religious rules and teachings will be imposed on all citizens."
 
tolerance_heretic		 
"Tolerate the Heretics"
"Priests and other pious people might protest, but the ones that do not share our faith, the true one, will be more comfortable in our land."
 
tolerance_heathen		 
"Increase Secularism"
"The state separated from religious institutions and dignitaries asserts the right to be free from religious rules and teachings. If - or when - we declare our state to be neutral on matters of belief the people will have a right to be free from the imposition by government of religion or religious practices upon its people. Ergo: Heathens will be happier in our country."
 
heir_chance		 
"Increased Issues"
"A ruler must have an heir, and recent research has listed multiple ways to ensure that a child will be born to the ruler and their spouse: Adoption, more royal marriages, or perhaps a mistress or two to ensure a legitimate heir are the options now available."
 
enemy_core_creation		 
"Local Patriotism"
"A stronger devotion and cultural attachment to our country will stop those who seek to place their own Core in our beloved provinces."
 
core_creation		 
"Patriotic Propaganda"
"Conquering provinces from another country often leads to unrest and a plague of revolts. With our new propaganda we will ensure that the inhabitants will accept our country, our rule, and our traditions faster than before."
 
vassal_income		 
"Mercantile Agreements"
"Having a mercantile agreement with our vassals ensure that their income will increase as other nations' merchants and traders will be forced to follow our standards. This will also increase the income our country gains from them."
 
religious_unity		 
"United in Faith"
"Despite the many differences in traditions, cultures, and various other things, we know that we are united under one faith, one religion, one powerful reason to stay together."
 
global_autonomy		 
"Stronger Global Government"
"Before this idea took power, the provinces craved more autonomy than we were willing to give them and local rule was strongly sought after. Though this thirst for self-rule hasn't been sated, this idea has quenched it at least a little."
 
accepted_culture_threshold		 
"Cultural Acceptance"
"Conquering provinces leads to many interesting cultural clashes, but with a touch of understanding and a sprinkle of tolerance we can live together peacefully, no matter our culture."
 
culture_conversion_cost		 
"Cultural Assimilation"
"Other cultures may contain elements we do not wish to adopt, or be less tolerant of our own traditions. To fully assimilate another culture we need to understand them and show them the faults of their ways."
 
naval_morale		 
"Naval Principles"
"As we expand our navy and train more sailors we need a proper code of conduct, a set of rules to make sure that the crew of the ships knew what is acceptable and what is not. This was initially an unwelcome idea, but it turns out that it has increased the morale of our navies."
 
trade_efficiency		 
"Evolving Trade"
"Trade and bartering have always existed, but it has not always been very efficient. People used to directly exchange goods and services for other goods and services but now, with our modern trade practices, goods and services are negotiated through a medium of exchange: Money."
 
global_trade_power		 
"Mercantile System"
"An economic theory and practice that has brought many a fortune to other nations has now been adopted by us."
 
global_prov_trade_power_modifier		 
"Mercantile Seminars"
"In order to ensure that all our merchants, traders, and other members of the trading class are skilled in the art of bartering we have organized seminars in our provinces. Anyone who participates will learn the great art of trading."
 
trade_steering		 
"Mercantile Theories"
"Some say that steering trade to your favor is an art, others say that it is a science. Many of our great scholars are now studying trade steering and giving advice to our merchants. It has led to us being more able to steer trade, much to our delight."
 
global_tariffs		 
"Bureau of Colonial Affairs"
"Having a Bureau of Colonial Affairs allows us to forward all those pesky problems any colony might come up with to skilled and trained specialists."
 
diplomatic_reputation		 
"Charismatic Diplomats"
"Promoting those among our diplomats who can charm anyone into agreement will potentially increase our diplomatic reputation significantly."
 
diplomatic_upkeep		 
"Office of Foreign Affairs"
"Our new office will take care of all our foreign affairs and diplomatic upkeep."
 
merchants		 
"State Business School"
"Mathematics, diplomatic skill, leadership and charisma... all important skills a successful merchant needs. Instead of sending out people who only know of trade what their master taught them, we can now provide our country with top-of-their-class merchants."
 
colonists		 
"Experienced Settlers"
"People who once moved from our great nation to join others searching for the land of opportunity have great experience in what is needed to create a colony and make it thrive. With a bit of persuasion, and promise of gold, some settlers have agreed to work for us as colonial guides."
 
diplomats		 
"Diplomatic Education"
"Though we have always had great diplomats, a way to educate those selected few to serve us even better can never be wrong. The elite, the best and the brightest, will flock to our education in order to prove themselves and be selected to represent us in various diplomatic actions."
 
naval_maintenance_modifier		 
"Naval Conscription"
"With the promise of gold, promotions, and long leave of absence, we have awoken many a man's desire to see more of the world and get paid for it. But if that doesn't bring enough recruits, we can always round up some drunks and drag them to sea. Our ships will have full crews in no time!"
 
naval_forcelimit_modifier		 
"National Dockyards"
"Ships need a safe haven when they are not in use, where they can be restored to their former glory or just have their holes patched up. This they will find in our national dockyards."
 
ship_durability		 
"Reinforced Hulls"
"For a ship to float, its weight must be less than that of the water displaced by the ship's hull. The recent improvements to our ships' hulls has both made them lighter and improved their durability."
 
war_exhaustion		 
"National Pride"
"War is always exhausting, for the land's resources, its people, and perhaps most of all for its soldiers. By involving everyone, from young to old, man and woman, rich and poor, to help defend against the enemy, a sense of belonging has grasped the nation and people will endure wars better."
 
war_exhaustion_cost		 
"Tactical War"
"Before a war has even started, battle plans, tactical advantages, and various strategies will be reviewed and discussed in order to make the loss of soldiers and supplies as low as possible."
 
navy_tradition_decay		 
"Naval Laws"
"Just as any gentleman will tell you, a set of unspoken laws decreeing how to behave and act in different circumstances will guarantee that you will never feel uncertain. This has been applied to our navy, and while our sailors might grumble they ultimately follow the laws."
 
navy_tradition		 
"Naval Pride"
"A new order, created to give our sailors and marines a sense of pride and dedication, will lead to a large increase in our naval tradition."
 
leader_naval_fire		 
"Naval Gunners"
"Our navies have new, standardized teams lead by naval gunnery officers. These men have great knowledge of naval battle and know how to employ cannons in the best tactical and strategical manner possible."
 
leader_naval_shock		 
"Advanced Boarding Techniques"
"While Boarding has long been a part of naval warfare, our captains and crews go about it more vigorously than most. By fearlessly closing the distance and fiercely attacking, our navy is gaining a reputation for their Shock tactics."
 
leader_naval_manuever		 
"Excellent Shipwrights"
"By gathering the best shipbuilders our nation has to offer, we are able to build us a fleet of modern vessels unmatched in craftsmanship and maneuverability."
 
spy_offence		 
"Undercover Operations"
"While being undercover, our spies are shielded from suspicion and will be able to perform operations of sabotage with less effort."
 
global_spy_defence		 
"Enemy Infiltration"
"Our spies will attempt to infiltrate the enemy's spy force to jumble information and make sure their government doesn't receive any sensitive intelligence about our country."
 
ship_recruit_speed		 
"Experienced Shipwrights"
"A large navy demands many shipyards and experienced shipwrights. For every ship we build, be it war ships or transports, our shipwrights gain knowledge and experience leading to faster ways of constructing ships of all sorts."
 
blockade_efficiency		 
"Standardized Blockades"
"The new standardized blockade force has already proven to be overwhelmingly positive, it has made our blockades much more efficient."
 
embargo_efficiency		 
"Efficient Embargoes"
"Decreasing other nation's trade power has never been easier."
 
prestige_from_naval		 
"Naval Grandeur"
"Our adversaries already fear our army, now they also tremble at the mention of our grand navy!"
 
range		
"Superior Provisions"
"By ensuring that our colonists have access to higher quality provisions we can increase the distance they can travel by sea without resupplying."
 
global_colonial_growth		 
"Promise of Land"
"The simple promise of a piece of land of their own has convinced people to move to our colonies."
 
ae_impact		 
"Refined Propaganda"
"We have refined our propaganda to make people ignore, or at least accept, our aggressive expansion."
 
privateer_efficiency		 
"Competent Privateers"
"The step from mere pirates to competent privateers has been a long and hard one, but one we managed to take in our stride."
 
diplomatic_annexation_cost		 
"Supported Assimilation"
"Instead of forcing people to assimilate we show them that our shared interests, sometimes even religious and cultural similarities, will make the assimilation of their provinces into our country a profitable venture."
 
heavy_ship_cost		 
"Protected Oak Forests"
"Ensure that our oak forests are protected by the state, so that we have access to cheap oak wood for ship hulls."
 
light_ship_cost		 
"Naval Engineering"
"The design of a light ship is not just about its purpose, a naval engineer needs to consider the design, construction, maintenance, and operation of the ship as well."
 
galley_cost		 
"National Arsenal"
"Establish a national arsenal where our galleys can be produced quickly and cheaply according to standard designs."
 
transport_cost		 
"State Naval Architect"
"Employing a naval architect at our court enables us to lower the costs of constructing transport ships."
 
heavy_ship_power		 
"Broadside Firing Drills"
"Firing a broadside requires highly a trained crew who are able to quickly reload and fire in unity. Regular drills will ensure our ships have such crew."
 
light_ship_power		 
"Double Shot"
"The light ships are faster but have fewer gun ports than other war ships. While the new practice of loading two round shots into one gun and firing them both at once mean the ships have a lower effective range and accuracy, it is devastating at close range."
 
galley_power		 
"Gunlocks"
"The flintlock mechanism used on muskets and rifles has been adapted to use on cannons, so-called gunlocks. These are safer than the old method of linstocks to fire the cannon."
 
land_morale		 
"Unit Pride"
"By encouraging our soldiers to take pride in the units they belong to we can increase their morale and make them fight all that much harder."
 
discipline		 
"Military Police"
"Nobody wants to be punished, but the introduction of military police in our armies has led to a decrease of courts martial and improved our soldiers' discipline."
 
land_maintenance_modifier		
"Organized Military Bureaucracy"
"Overhauling and organizing our military bureaucracy was not an easy task, but a necessary one."
 
mercenary_cost		 
"Formalized Mercenary Recruiting"
"Recruiting mercenary has always been a slow and complicated affair, so complicated in fact that relying on our own soldiers has been the better choice many times. By formalizing the recruitment we have bypassed many of the problems and made it easier to recruit mercenaries."
 
merc_maintenance_modifier		 
"Titles for Mercenaries"
"Granting titles for mercenary commanders ensure that we get the best soldiers for a fair price, which lowers the maintenance cost of mercenaries."
 
possible_mercenaries		 
"Mercenary Recruitment Centers"
"Creating centers all over our country for the recruitment of mercenaries has increased the amount of mercenary companies available to us."
 
land_forcelimit_modifier		 
"Establish National Army"
"A national army would mean that we no longer have to rely on mercenaries or private armies when at war, and that we can create larger armies with more soldiers."
 
global_manpower_modifier		 
"Peasant Conscription"
"No matter if you are rich or poor, you can always fight. Conscripting peasants might not be seen with pleasure by our noble soldiers, but it will increase our manpower."
 
manpower_recovery_speed		 
"Local Recruitment Centers"
"Recruitment centers enable us to recruit soldiers directly from each province. Instead of having them travel to us, we will come to them."
 
reinforce_speed		 
"Organized Logistics"
"The management of supplies was a disorganized mess until we created a system for organized logistics."
 
hostile_attrition		 
"Scorched Earth Policy"
"Our military has strict orders to destroy anything that might be useful to the enemy, such as food sources or transportation, while withdrawing from an area."
 
army_tradition		 
"Meritocratic Promotions"
"The old way of promoting those of noble blood has been discarded in favor for promotions made by merit."
 
army_tradition_decay		 
"Establish Officer Schools"
"Those who show great promise or great eagerness in leading troops are now able to enrol in an Officer school, which will teach them how to act as an officer and a gentleman."
 
leader_land_fire		 
"Rifle Drills"
"'Give a man a gun, and he'll be able to defend himself for a day. Teach a man to use a rifle, and he'll never be defenseless again.'"
 
leader_land_shock
"Cavalry Officers"
"Men on horses need a leader just as much as the man walking, and promoting men to the rank of officers amongst the cavalry will only make them better."
 
leader_land_manuever		 
"Army Scouts"
"Scouts are sent out into unfamiliar regions to explore and gain vital information about enemy forces, the environment, and the terrain."
 
leader_siege		 
"Siege Tactics"
"Whoever thought sieges was a clever way to wage war might be a genius, or an idiot. With improved siege tactics, however, our officers will fare better in sieges."
 
regiment_recruit_speed		 
"Rapid Recruiting"
"The faster we can recruit, the faster we can reinforce our armies."
 
prestige_from_land		 
"Monuments to Victory"
"Our victories shall be celebrated with great monuments that depict whoever helped us claim victory or lead us on the path of glory."
 
defensiveness		 
"Fortification Construction Standards"
"One of the most important things when defending our country is our forts. The construction standard for fortifications will make it harder for our enemies to take control of our provinces."
 
siege_ability		 
"Sappers"
"Sieges are won by patience and ingenuity. Sappers bring both to a siege, with their duties devoted to tasks involving facilitating movement, defense, and the survival of allied forces and impeding those of enemies."
 
vassal_forcelimit_bonus		 
"Vassal Levy System"
"One benefit of having vassals is that they help expand our armies significantly, and with the Vassal Levy System our benefits will be even greater."
 
infantry_power		 
"Veteran Sergeants"
"Sergeants are the true leaders of armies — the officers are there just to prevent warfare becoming a mere squabble between peasants."
 
cavalry_power		 
"Fine Horse Breeding"
"Any horseman will tell you that the quality of the horse is as important as the quality of the equestrian - oftentimes even more so."
 
artillery_power		 
"High Quality Ammunition"
"The better the ammunition, the better the power of our muskets and cannons."
 
infantry_cost		 
"Mass Conscription"
"Compulsory enlisting of people into military service by mass conscription lowers the cost of infantry."
 
cavalry_cost		 
"Land Grants for Cavalrymen"
"Horses eat grass, grass grows on land, land granted to cavalrymen ensures better cavalry at lower costs."
 
artillery_cost		 
"Standardized Calibers"
"The internal diameter of the barrel determines how large projectiles can be, and with a standardized caliber we can produce more cannons and better ammunition for them."
 
fort_maintenance_modifier	 
"Castramentation"
"Wherever there's war, there's fortresses. Some are temporary, field fortifications that are abandoned after the war has been won or lost. Others are permanent fortification, with great, solid walls which provide a sturdy defense against all that is thrown against them, be it men, cannon balls or other projectiles. Improvements on fort maintenance lead to better forts and makes it cheaper and easier to maintain our first line of defense, the forts."
 
development_cost		 
"Land Reform"
"Many ancient rights and customs lie in the way of developing the lands under our control. We must undertake a sweeping land reform to ensure that all lands in our country are organized and held in such a way as to make developing them to their furthest potential as easy as possible."
 
global_sailors_modifier		 
"Peasant Sailors"
"No matter if you are rich or poor, you can always be whipped into follow orders on a ship. Conscripting peasants might not create the best of sailors, but at least they are a renewable resource."

yearly_harmony	 
"Religious Observances"
"More so than most others, we are a people who hold strict religious observations, strengthening the harmony of our nation."
 
harmonization_speed	 
"Integration of Communities"
"The tricky affair of meshing beliefs is made much easier by moving whole communities from our own heartlands into new holdings."
 
meritocracy	 
"Strict Examinations"
"By holding our examinees to only the highest of standards, we ensure that the greatest of minds are those who assist our administration."
 
monarch_admin_power	 
"Regal Education"
"Never shall a produce of our dynasty be lacking in education in matters of governance. Education for our soon-to-be monarchs shall be rigorous and omnipresent."
 
max_absolutism	 
"Supreme Constitution"
"With it written into the very soul of our nation that our ruler is the most perfect and supreme person on the Earth, standing above all human laws and having no judge above their person, we can push further with absolute control over our lands."
 
yearly_absolutism	 
"Unquestionable Authority"
"The concept of representation and autonomous control are like poison to our nation. Our people will all answer to the absolute will of central governance."
 
administrative_efficiency	 
"Ruthless Administration"
"There are many checks and balances to ensure a steady flow in our administration. By ignoring most of them and making our main policy one of expansion, we can acquire more land quickly."
 
institution_spread_from_true_faith	 
"Religious Brotherhood"
"Harboring a sense of trust with fellow brothers-in-faith that their word, while not always spoken with best intention, is at least true at the core, we can assist the spreading of new, beneficial ideas."
 
global_institution_spread	 
"Forefront of New Thought"
"It is so often the way that when new meets old, the old must give way. Our nation is well accustomed to embracing radical new ideas with as little turbulence as possible."
 
embracement_cost	 
"Thrifty Persuasion"
"Convincing the populace to abandon backwards ideas and embracing the new can be an expensive affair. Ours are a people, however, who are always able to find cost-effective solutions."
 
max_states	 
"Expanded Governance Staff"
"Keeping a large number of governors on our payroll, with adequate checks and balances, ensures that administrating large swathes of land comes without much burden."
 
church_power_modifier	 
"State Religion Rights"
"Certain rights and privileges are granted for the faithful to ensure that our people find strength through faith."
 
yearly_corruption	 
"Public Punishments"
"Corruption is rife through man but, with public demonstrations of punishments for those found embezzling, we can tackle the worst of it."
 
caravan_power	 
"Support for Caravan Traders"
"By building and maintaining our overland trade networks, our Caravan Traders will have an easier time bringing wonderful, taxable goods to our nation."
 
monthly_fervor_increase	 
"Religious Foundations"
"By ensuring that Religion is at the heart of all matters for our state and our people, we can work up greater fervor to direct at matters of importance."
 
global_trade_goods_size_modifier	 
"Production Quotas"
"Across our lands production sites will be expected to meet firm quotas designed to bolster our economy."
 
adm_tech_cost_modifier	 
"Foreign Talent"
"Our nation has long been accepting of individuals fleeing other nations. When it turns out that these individuals are ones of talent, we are quick to employ them."
 
build_time	 
"Corner Cutting"
"Beautiful structures are overrated. So long as our infrastructure is built quickly, aesthetics can take a back seat."
 
state_maintenance_modifier	 
"Provincial Allowances"
"By granting special privileges and allowances to our State Governors, we can cut back slightly on the expenses of their services."
 
autonomy_change_time	 
"Flexible Rule"
"As a nation, we shall be pragmatic with how tightly we grip onto our people, judging the local situations to see if the people least governed are those best governed."
 
mercenary_discipline	 
"Recruitment Standards"
"When we sully ourselves dealing with men of fortune, we shall at least ensure that we contract out the most capable fighters."
 
rival_border_fort_maintenance	 
"Border Communities"
"Communities on the very border of our enemies' lands can be convinced that it is in their best interests to help out financially with their own defenses."
 
siege_blockade_progress	 
"Tight Blockades"
"We shall instruct our captains that no ship be spared and no supply be slipped through when we are blockading a province into submission."
 
cav_to_inf_ratio	 
"Battle Organization"
"We shall take lessons from the greatest cavalry armies of history to ensure that our horses' hooves echo throughout the land."
 
artillery_bonus_vs_fort	 
"Massed Barrage"
"With careful placement and accuracy, we can bring down enemy fortifications faster."
 
monarch_military_power	 
"Legacy of Combat"
"No member of our esteemed dynasty can be called an adult until they have proven their proficiency in combat. A strong military tradition keeps our family and our nation strong,"
 
backrow_artillery_damage	 
"Battlefield Support"
"With artillerymen strictly trained in how to react in the flow of battle, their effectiveness in supporting the front-line can be increased, so long as the line holds."
 
harsh_treatment_cost	 
"Harsher Treatment"
"Sometimes slaughtering dissidents is not enough. Their families, homes and even villages have to be torched to really get the point across."
 
fire_damage_received	 
"Stoicism"
"Standing in the fire of enemy projectiles is an unpleasant affair, but we are a stoic people and can maintain composure in the harshest of situations."
 
shock_damage_received
"Camaraderie"
"When the enemy comes charging, first instinct is to flee. With a strong spirit of camaraderie drilled into our army, we can ensure they do not break in the heat of battle."
 
cavalry_flanking	 
"Tradition of the Hunt"
"With hunting by horseback a vital skill learned in childhood for our people, applying the techniques to battle come as second nature."
 
shock_damage	 
"War Cry"
"At any time in any place, our warriors are willing to charge at their opponents, letting out deafening war cries, never looking back."
 
fire_damage	 
"Accuracy Training"
"By tying military training with weekly religious adherence, we can ensure a population who can hit a target from at least twenty paces."
 
movement_speed	
"Local Expertise"
"Prudently enlisting the services of locals ensures that they can assist our armies in finding the fastest passage through lands they know best."
 
army_tradition_from_battle	 
"Enlisted Observers"
"Win or lose, there is much to learn from a battle. We shall ensure that scouts observe from afar so that we can better our battle doctrine with our findings."
 
monthly_militarized_society	 
"Militant Society"
"Our military budget is the same as our state budget. Let nothing get in the way of our unparalleled military might."
 
reinforce_cost_modifier	 
"Warrior Spirit"
"Our nation's young, steeped in martial tradition, are always quick to leap to the front lines to claim the glory of their forefathers."
 
loot_amount	 
"Spoils of War"
"It has always been the way of our people that the victor enjoys the spoils of war. Our enemies may not appreciate our plundering of their lands, but perhaps they should have tried winning."
 
garrison_size	 
"To the Last Man"
"By ensuring that we have extra garrisoned fortifications, fighting to the last man makes things much more terrifying for our invaders."
 
land_attrition	 
"Terrain Resilience"
"We are no strangers to hostile terrain. Mountains, snakes, biting cold we've seen it all."
 
mil_tech_cost_modifier	 
"Lessons of War"
"Enemies shall fall before us in all conflicts but we should not overlook the tactics that they use. Clever adoption of what we see in battle will help advance our military thought."
 
free_leader_pool	 
"Advancement Through Achievement"
"It is foolish to limit ourselves in regards to military leaders. Within reason, should a man prove himself, then he can lead our armies."
 
global_regiment_cost	 
"Service Guarantees Citizenship"
"Like the Romans before us, we shall allow foreigners to prove their loyalty to the state through military service. Finding cannon fodder should thus prove easier and cheaper."
 
mercenary_cost	 
"Mercenary Contacts"
"By keeping many contacts within the mercenary forces, we can ensure that we are preferential customers not out of the size of our payments, but our reliability."
 
recover_army_morale_speed	 
"The War Hautbois"
"The presence of our national instrument on the battlefield has long driven up the fighting spirit of our soldiers."
 
warscore_cost_vs_other_religion	 
"Religious Intolerance"
"Heretics and Heathens will forever be devils in our society. While building good foreign relations may be difficult, at least our claims in war will be more just."
 
war_taxes_cost_modifier	 
"Wartime Austerity"
"When in times of war, our nation will call upon our people to do all they can to provide and our people shall expect this."
 
monarch_diplomatic_power	 
"Cosmopolitan Upbringing"
"No ruler worth their salt cannot hold their own in a negotiation. All future rulers' upbringings shall involve education in courts both home and away to learn diplomatic nuance."
 
liberty_desire_from_subject_development	 
"Foreign Projects"
"By encouraging investments in our foreign subjects' lands, we can make them ever grateful towards us, even when they grow in power themselves."
 
reduced_liberty_desire_on_same_continent	 
"Military Displays"
"Ensuring that our nearby subjects are kept fully aware of our military prowess should ensure they know their place in the grand scheme."
 
naval_tradition_from_battle	 
"Captured Seamen"
"When emerging victorious from battles at sea, we should make the most of the seamen we capture and learn what we can from them to advance our own naval prowess."
 
capture_ship_chance	 
"Enlisted Pirates"
"Pirates are the scourge of the seas, but should we offer captured ones our employment, they may teach us a thing or two about securing enemy vessels in battle."
 
sunk_ship_morale_hit_recieved	 
"Rigorous Naval Drilling"
"Watching an allied ship sink below the sea can break the spirits of one's crew. With sufficient training, our sailors can put up a brave face in the harshest of situations."
 
global_naval_engagement_modifier	 
"Adaptive Naval Doctrine"
"We shall let no tactics at sea be unquestionable. We shall adapt to the situations and secure the advantage in any engagement."
 
global_ship_trade_power	 
"Aggressive Trading Procedure"
"Timing is everything in a deal. Wait too long and the currents will be unfavorable for future trade voyages. With an edge in trade negotiations, our trade fleets will have an easier time getting from port to port."
 
native_assimilation	 
"Native Negotiations"
"Everyone has a price. By buying out local native Chiefs we can ensure that the natives of our new lands toil for our profit."
 
native_uprising_chance	 
"Beads and Blankets"
"Fire and sword is certainly one way to take care of the native menace, but it is not the only way. Coming to the natives on friendly terms can keep them out of our way and allow us to build our settlements without interruption."
 
reduced_liberty_desire	 
"Protective Agreements"
"Not all overlords are tyrants. In our case we are simply protecting weaker states from their aggressive neighbors, and we ensure they are aware of this."
 
migration_cooldown	 
"Migratory Ways"
"Our people have always been quick to move from place to place, never settling in one place for too long."
 
envoy_travel_time	 
"Diplomatic Privilege"
"We shall ensure that our diplomats always have preferential treatment when it comes to getting the fastest horses and quickest ships."
 
province_warscore_cost	 
"Strong Negotiators"
"When we have the edge in a situation and we know it, we can and will press for more."
 
dip_tech_cost_modifier	 
"Expanding Literacy"
"If we ensure that more than just the Clergy have a passing familiarity with reading and writing, we may find that there are more people able to contribute to our technological advancements."
 
papal_influence	 
"Clerical Ties"
"By always keeping ourselves on the right side of the clergy, we ensure that we remain in the Papacy's good graces as well."
 
auto_explore_adjacent_to_colony	 
"Frontier Outposts"
"When settling new lands, we shall ensure that we also construct outposts at the very edge of our claims, so that we can better know what lies beyond."
 
may_establish_frontier 
"Settling the Frontier"
"The time has come to go forth and settle the open lands that lie before us."
 
unjustified_demands	 
"Never Unjust"
"By ensuring that surrounding nations are kept well aware of the justness of our cause, we can ensure that we are never the tyrant at the peace table."
 
rebel_support_efficiency	 
"Support for Dissidents"
"We have no qualms about supplying and funding dissidents abroad to keep our enemies weakened and new emergent states in line with our way of thinking."
 
placed_merchant_power	 
"Merchant Funding"
"With the proper assistance we can ensure our merchants gain an extra edge in trading home and abroad."
 
global_own_trade_power	 
"New Trading Practices"
"With some effort, our domestic trading techniques have been refined."
 
recover_navy_morale_speed	 
"Oars to Freedom"
"With a system in place ensuring that an enslaved man at sea can work his way towards emancipation we can end up with a crew who are more resilient to harsh times at sea."
 
global_foreign_trade_power	 
"Gunboat Diplomacy"
"By backing our words with mighty naval dominance, we can ensure that our merchants are given more preferential treatment overseas."
 
improve_relation_modifier	 
"Seasoned Diplomats"
"Keeping around the best and brightest diplomats familiar with foreign tongues and nuance will ensure we have an easier time smoothing over any transgressions."
 
possible_condottieri	 
"Mercenary Traditions"
"With prospects at home frequently unsteady, our people often turn to foreign coin. A strong mercenary tradition keeps us as a popular supplier of manpower."
 
naval_attrition	 
"Supplied Ships"
"The ship itself is not the only thing to worry about on long voyages, the crew's well-being is equally vital. Our tradition of keeping our sailors' dietary needs in check keeps our navy afloat for longer."
 
sailors_recovery_speed	 
"One With the Sea"
"Our people take naturally to the oceans and excel at seafaring. When our active Sailors are depleting there is no shortage of replacements ready to sail."
 
trade_range_modifier	 
"Insurance Policies"
"Long distance trading can be a dicey affair. By ensuring our traders can insure themselves against risks of trading, we can see to it that they reach further afield."
 
 
years_of_nationalism
"One Nation, One People"
"Loyalty to your nation is an honorable trait, but a land may consist of many different nations. With the notion that our people is part of one nation only, we will fight against the divide that many small nations cause."

num_accepted_cultures 
"Multiculturalism"
"Cultural differences mean little in our nation. By accepting new cultures as our own, we benefit from the successes from people within these cultures."



















